real estate has risen in price in
certain cities the only issue is that we
have a different scenario with incomes
these are falling further and further
away from each other and is not going to
stop hang on because this is the 2.0 you
came here for the truth
so let me unveil that for you today we
are going to look at real estate prices
in the US and then I want to also talk
about vehicle debt let's begin
household income increase needed to buy
median price house in key cities so let
me just cover the summary first this
chart illustrates the income increase
needed to afford the median price house
in the most populated cities so we have
several cities here and we can see that
the national percentage is 6 okay that
is I believe to be a little high but
it's reasonable okay and then you look
at all the other cities and you realize
it's a lot higher in fact if we go to
the opposite end of the spectrum to San
Francisco and Los Angeles we see that
these percentages exceed 100 most of the
largest US cities are completely
unaffordable to the typical end-user
shelter buyer with 10% down payment so
you ask the question if this is the case
then why do we keep seeing prices rise
why do we keep seeing homes being sold
this can't be true if they're completely
unaffordable this is an extreme scenario
that we see not nationally as you can
see but in the major cities and the
major cities in Canada are experiencing
this to an even greater degree think
about real estate prices in Vancouver
Toronto New York San Francisco Los
Angeles ok just to name a few
the prices have risen to a point that
they are not affordable to the average
consumer who buys them so they're buying
it they can't afford it for example
you go to the store you buy a laptop
from the Apple store it's $3,000 you pay
with your credit card and then you pay
off the minimum payments every month you
can't afford the laptop you still bond
legally lawfully you're just paying the
minimum payment and that laptop is going
to take you nine years to pay off and
instead of costing three thousand it's
going to cost you five thousand but the
point is that you are able to buy it and
that's exactly what's happening with
real estate just as an example in
Toronto because that's where I live
you'll see homes that go for well over 1
million dollars being sold to a couple
let's say a new family they are way in
over their heads but their belief is
that if we don't get in now we'll never
be able to get in and so they take on
mortgages of a million dollars plus
there's no way that they can afford it
but they just figure as long as
everything stays the same we can make
our payments and we're ok but the truth
is that nothing ever stays the same
there's always things that are changing
this is no exception so I want to stress
to everyone that you're able to buy
things even when you can't afford it the
bank will give you as much money as you
want that's not a problem getting money
from the bank not a problem
continuing to pay that that's the
challenge divergence between actual
household income and income needed to
buy the median priced house this is
interesting again the National is -6 and
you look at this how bad this becomes in
the same cities New York San Francisco
Los Angeles you're talking about in the
end you get in towards 50%
the bottom line most of the largest US
cities are completely unaffordable
basically covers the same thing the
greater the negative the more expensive
house prices are relative to the
household incomes of the end-user
shelter buyer so this is talking about
essentially people they earn an income
whatever that is let's say household
income at $80,000 okay so they're making
a household income two people they're
making $80,000 and they are buying homes
that are in many cases $1,000,000 plus
if you do the math you realize that
that's going to take a very very long
time to pay off and that assumes that
interest rates remain low then mortgage
rates will remain low and if they
increase these people who are currently
in detached homes will soon find
themselves in rental properties if
things continue to go with interest
rates rising and things becoming more
precarious so that's the main topic that
I wanted to cover this is also something
it's more just for your own interest
from this core logic website you
basically put your mouse over the
different areas and it shows you the
mortgage fraud in your particular state
so if you're in the states you can take
a look at this put your mouse over that
and of course California being right up
there it's interesting if you want to
check it out for yourself I just want to
mention it borrowed buyers the number of
leased vehicles hit have record high in
swelling the used car market and one of
the things that I wanted to point out
here there are different reasons why
people these vehicles that's obvious a
lot of people have businesses they use
up the cars they want a new car all the
time
other individuals they want to lease a
car today because in let's say three
years from now they know that their
plans are going to be different they
don't want to necessarily fork out a lot
of money right away so they lease a
vehicle maybe they you know there could
be a different array of reasons why
however I believe a lot of people simply
look at the price this is my income this
is my monthly affordability therefore I
will lease instead of buying
so when least increases I believe that
we see a growing trend and it's no
different than what we see with credit
cards and mortgages and everything else
that's the point I want to make there
and last but not least here speeding
down the average used car lost
17% of its value in the 12 months and
the June 30th that's something very
interesting and they do believe it it's
all vehicles a lot of people spend a lot
of money on their vehicle and there's
you know I don't judge anybody if you
want to buy a very nice car luxury
vehicle by all means but make sure you
can afford it a lot of people quite
frankly cannot and so they take on too
much that they can't really make the
payments they struggle along you know
what I've been noticing is as increase a
dramatic increase in payday loan
different sort of cash money all these
different services that are available
where you can get a small loan for a low
cost and that's something along the
lines of I believe I've seen three
hundred dollar loan for $20 or a $100
loan for something like one dollar on
your first first-time of course you'll
have to come back and these type of
businesses they're opening up everywhere
all over the place and they're a booming
business
this is what tells me that people are
struggling people are struggling more
than ever look that individual might
take that loan for $300 he might go to
the store he might buy whatever I type
add or whatever it is and there you go
the economy has been boosted but that
individual now owes $20.00 to that
corporation to that company so is he
going to be able to pay back does he
have the $20 to pay back is it going to
have to sell that new iPad that he
bought well I don't know all I'm saying
is that we have sort of a fictional type
economy and people ultimately just like
the ostrich they stick their head in the
sand and they ignore reality if you
found this video informative please give
me a thumbs up if you like reality give
me a thumbs up if you want to stick your
head in the sand give me a thumbs down
last but not least if you found this
video informative I know you will find
my books the money GPS and my new
release global economic collapse even
more informative these books are
available at Amazon they're also
available in places like Barnes & Noble
and everything else but if you want to
take a look at the Amazon link it's down
in the description below you can flip
through the books there take care